
EXAMINATION: 


Study: XR Chest 


Procedure(s): XRCHE - XR Chest 


XRHANRI - XR Hand Right 


XRHANLE - XR Hand Left 


CLINICAL DETAILS: 


9-year-old male with migratory joint pain swelling and erythema.  Family history of rheumatoid arthritis.?  Chronic recurrent osteomyelitis 


FINDINGS: 


Appearances were discussed with colleagues at FMC and WCH with thanks. 


CHEST The cardiomediastinal contour is within normal limits.  The lungs and pleural reflections appear clear without evidence of metastatic disease, and lung nodule, or interstitial infiltrate.  No calcification is seen beneath the hemidiaphragms / region of the adrenals and no vertebral wedging or lucency adjacent to the humeral metaphyses is visible.  There is prominence of the medial end of the left clavicle with questionable expansion.  (The latter can be seen with CRMO  but may simply reflect a symmetrical profiling of the rhomboid fossa). While this is also questionably more sclerotic,  there is asymmetry in density across the film which may account for the latter change. 


Both hands:  Again there is lucency involving the epiphysis shaft of the middle phalanx of the left index finger with an impression of similar but more subtle changes on the right. The lucency may reflect in part reactive hyperaemia but there is frank cortical erosion of the middle phalanx with an abnormal trabecular pattern of much of the bone .   Similar  but less marked additional changes are seen on the oblique / lateral  views with erosion of the dorsomedial aspect of the  middle phalanx metaphysis of the right index finger.  These changes are associated with soft tissue swelling but the latter appears more diffuse and "sausage" like with no clear destructive mass.   The erosion of the metaphyseal cortex appears associated with ?intracortical tunnelling or early periostitis. 


The  pathological nature of the changes remains uncertain.  Established erosions on the first paediatric presentation of an arthropathy are unusual  - and the erosions in this patient appear more distal and with a more permeative pattern than expected .  On discussion , and in knowledge of recent ESR/ cRP an atypical arthropathy (?  Seronegative) is still considered possible.   A broad range of conditions were considered including CRMO,  LC H, multifocal infection, haematologic  malignancy  however are less favoured at this time  given the tendency to symmetry and predominant hand / feet joint involvement. 


Ongoing clinical correlation is however recommended. 


REPORTED BY:  xxx, Consultant, xx/10/2019 03:09 PM 


 


 
