
EXAMINATION: 



XROPG963 - OPG  Dental - Impact,Decay,Peridontal 



XRSPC - XR Spine Cervical 



XRWRIHANRI - XR Wrist Hand Right 



XRWRIHANLE - XR Wrist Hand Left 



CLINICAL DETAILS: 



Polyarticular disease.  ? arthritis or dysplasia of the mandible. 



COMPARISON: 



None available at time of report 



FINDINGS: 



OPG:  There is combination of permanent deciduous dentition.  There is flattening and sclerosis of the condylar heads of the mandible.  This may be better assessed with formal oblique temporomandibular joint.  X-rays.  No other focal acute non dental pathology identified. 



Cervical spine:  The bones are mildly osteopenic.  Posterior alignment is maintained throughout the cervical spine.  Intervertebral disc heights appear normal.  There is no prevertebral soft tissue swelling.  The odontoid process appears intact.  No abnormal soft tissue mass or calcification is seen.  There is mild lateral curvature of the cervical spine, convex to the right. 



Both hands:  The bones of the forearm appear gracile and osteopenic.  There is mild soft tissue swelling overlying the carpus and there is some loss of the normal carpal arches bilaterally.  There is mild degree of negative ulnar variance. There is mild subluxation of the first carpometacarpal joints bilaterally. There is widening of the scapholunate joint.  There is soft tissue swelling surrounding the first metacarpophalangeal and metacarpophalangeal joints of both hands. There is narrowing of the first metacarpophalangeal joint bilaterally.  There is flexion deformity and narrowing of the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fifth and ring and index fingers bilaterally. 



Comment:  Osteopenia, soft tissue swelling and joint changes, both in the mandible and hands are most consistent with a polyarticular inflammatory arthropathy verses bony dysplasia.  Views of the remainder of the spine, pelvis and another long bones would help exclude dysplasia but this is considered less likely.. 



 



 
